Alhamdulillah, Rabbul Alamin
Ar-Rahman, Ar-Rahim, Maliki yawm al-deen
Iyyaka na'budu wa Iyyaka nasta'iin
Ihdina siraqa al-mustaqeem
Siraqa al-ladeen an'ante alayhim
Ghayri al-marzoob alayhim
Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu
Bismillah, Ar-Rahman, Ar-Rahim
Alhamdulillah, Rabbul Alamin
Wa bihi nasta'iin, wa nusalli wa nusallim
Wa ala afzalil khalqi ajmaeen
Nabi'ina Muhammadin wa ala alihi wa sahbihi wa ttabi'een
Wa man tabi'ahum bi ihsanin ila yawm al-deen
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We send blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And all his companions
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all
And may he bless all those who have struggled and strived from the beginning
In a way that the deen has come to us
And may he bless us and make us from amongst those who can learn
Put into practice and convey the message in a way that our children can also be upon the deen
And our progenies to come
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us all steadfastness
And grant us all acceptance, ameen
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam
As you have heard, we have already completed the recitation of more than half of the Quran
Just yesterday we were starting
And I remember making mention of the fact that before you know it
The month will come to an end, believe me
It is now the second half of this month of Ramadan
In terms of recitation of the Quran
And there are a few days left
In which we need to make use of the spirituality
And the value of this month of Ramadan
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not make us lazy
And may he make us from amongst those whom when Ramadan finishes
At least we will be able to say that
Alhamdulillah, I did not waste my time this month of Ramadan
And inshallah, every month of Ramadan that we may get to see thereafter
May Allah make it even better than the previous one, ameen
We look at a very very important incident that occurred
To one of the sahaba of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
By the name of Salman al-Farisi
And I'm starting this story because some people had asked me about it
And we had made mention of Abdullah ibn Salam and how he accepted Islam
And it's important for us to speak about another companion
A great companion of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Who was of Persian origin
And he accepted Islam, what was his journey?
Many lessons to be learnt
Salman al-Farisi was from Persia
His father used to worship the fire
And he was one of those who was the chief of his people
He was a leader and he used to be responsible
To ensure that the fire was not turned off or did not go off at all
So Salman al-Farisi as a young boy
His father used to tell him sometimes to go and check that the fire doesn't go off
So he used to go and come
And his father loved him a lot
They used to worship the fire
Never did his father allow him to go out and so on
So one day when his father told him
Look, you know, go and check the fire
And ensure that it is not turned off
Make sure that it stays and so on
Imagine they worship the fire
And they themselves have to make sure that it's lit
Allahu Akbar
Allah safeguard us and protect us
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the understanding
That He alone is deserving of all acts of worship
La ilaha illallah
Muhammadur Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So on his way back
He passed by a monastery
A little place where the priests were
And he decided to go and see what they're doing in the church
So as he went in as a young boy
He watched them, he listened, he witnessed and so on
And he told himself this is a better religion than my religion
My religion I'm worshiping the fire
At least these people are worshiping a god
Subhanallah
And they have better teachings
And he was right
Christianity definitely far better religion than worshiping the fire
And at that time it was the religion
Because it was the time just after
Isa alaihi wasallam Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam had not yet come
So he decided to listen when he went back home he was late
His father asked him what happened
So he tells his father exactly what happened as a young boy
Look, I think there is a religion better than our religion
And I think that these people have much more sense
And they make a lot of sense
We are worshiping the fire
It goes off, we keep it on and so on
His father was very upset, very angry being one of the leaders
So he shackled him and he kept him indoors
And he ensured that this child does not interact with the outside world
And it so happened that this increased the love
That Salman al-Farisi had for religion and for the search of the truth
And within himself he said I am a Christian
I am a person who follows what I saw that evening
And thereafter he sent message to some of the priests
Who used to travel up to Asham
You know the region that includes Jerusalem and Syria and all these places
He sent a message to them saying that whenever there is a caravan going
Take me with, you can kidnap me or you can just come and release me and take me with
And he let that message get to them
When they were leaving, caravan was leaving after some time
They picked him up and they took him with
And they took him all the way to Asham where he stayed
And he was very happy, he learnt the religion
Imagine he was the son of a very very influential person, one of the leaders
It did not deter him
So he went and he worshipped
And he noticed that this priest is actually robbing
And stealing the charities of the people and eating the wealth of the people
But he kept quiet, he was learning and later on the priest died
When he died, Salman got up and told some of the people
Look this person, he was actually a traitor
He was cheating, he was stealing your wealth
And I want to show you where he used to hide it
And when he took them and showed them
They then crucified this priest of theirs
And they decided this man was a very bad man
We don't want to give him a proper burial
And they were actually very very upset
And thereafter they appointed a very very good, pious man as their leader
And he was indeed a very good priest
And he taught Christianity, Salman and Faris he learnt a lot
When he died another one came
In fact when he died, Salman and Faris he went to him
And told him you were such a good man
And you know I learnt so much from you
And you are on such a level of piety
After you die, who should I go to?
So he was shown go to such and such a person
And then the other one died
And he was shown to go to another one and so on
And in this way he was then told by one of the priests
That look, you as a young boy
If you are given life, you will see the prophet who is coming
And he is going to come in an area
That is between the two deserts, the two rocky deserts
Which has date palms
And he described Madina Munawwara
So Salman was a young boy, he had hardly anything
Because obviously he had given up his home
He had given up everything
And he was here learning the religion
And following Christianity
It so happened that he sent a message to some of the Arabs
That if you are going into the Arabian Peninsula
Please take me with
And then they surely took him with
And he gave them whatever little he had for the transport
But sadly when they got to the middle of the desert
They changed their tune
They decided to enslave this man
And they enslaved Salman al-Farisi
Took him captive and sold him to some people
So who purchased him?
A Jewish man purchased him
And gave him as a gift to his nephew
And this is all the plan of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Imagine a free man being enslaved
And this was the pagan Arab time
When they used to enslave anyone who was weak
And who didn't have family or clan to protect him or her
They used to enslave them
So when they enslaved this man and sold him to the Jewish man
Who then gave him to his nephew
The nephew was from a place known as Yathrib
Yathrib was Madina Munawwara subhanallah
Now Salman al-Farisi comes
And Salman al-Farisi came to Al-Madeen al-Munawwara
And he was enslaved working in the garden
And working in the orchard and so on
And he had his master who was a Jewish man
Now the last priest who met Salman al-Farisi told him
That the messenger who is going to come
He has many signs
From amongst them he will not eat a charity
If you give him a charity he won't eat from it
And if you give him a gift he will eat from it
And if you notice on his back
He will have a mark, a seal of prophethood
That is the sign, it's slightly bigger than a pea
And it is at the back
On his back just below that shoulder blade
Or just nearby there
So Salman al-Farisi he had heard this
And subhanallah he was waiting
And at the same time one day
As he was busy working
He heard his master being told by another man
Who was also Jewish
That do you know that these people of Madina
They have now met up with someone
Whom they are calling a prophet
And he is going to come here to Madina Munawwara
And at the moment he is in Quba
And he is coming to Madina
So Salman dropped whatever he was doing
And he was in awe
And what did he ask?
What did you say?
There is a prophet who is coming here?
Subhanallah
They told him you carry on with what you are doing
Who told you to ask questions here?
No questions asked
You are a slave, carry on doing what you have to
And so he continued
But when the prophet salallahu alayhi was salam came
Salman al-Farisi
In his little time that he had had
He went and he started checking
He looked, he saw, he asked questions and so on
And he gave a gift, he gave a charity
In fact he gave something to Rasulullah salallahu alayhi was salam
And he said this is a charity for you
The prophet salallahu alayhi was salam did not eat from it
He didn't eat from it
And then he came back and said
Wait, hang on, I gave you something
And I said by mistake that it's a charity
It wasn't a charity
It's just a gift
Then he ate from it
So this, he told himself these are two signs
Did not eat the charity and he ate the gift from the gift
Then one day it is reported that he noticed
When the prophet salallahu alayhi was assisting in some
Carrying a janaza or something of that nature
And he noticed on his back, subhanallah
That yes, there is a seal of prophethood here
Exactly as described
And this is when Salman al-Farisi declared aloud
That I bear witness that there is none worthy of worship
On the other hand that you are the messenger
Whom we are all waiting for
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the understanding
So this was Salman al-Farisi
Look at his journey and look at what had happened
One more issue
He was still a slave
So the prophet salallahu alayhi was salam told him
Ya Salman, why don't you buy yourself
Buy your freedom
So there was a certain amount the Jewish man had asked for
One narration of the historians makes mention of
The fact that he said I would like 300 date palms
So you need to sow those for me and make sure that they grow
It was very difficult at that time
Because they would plant and when it grows
A lot of them would die because of adverse weather conditions and so on
So what happened?
The prophet salallahu alayhi was salam told him
Ya Salman, the little amount that you have of gold
You can sell it and you will get a certain amount of silver
That this man is asking for
And if you were to dig these little holes
So that we can come in and we will plant
I will plant these for you
I will put the seeds myself
And salallahu alayhi was salam came through
According to one narration
And he put all those seeds
Not a single one of them died
All 300 had grown
Salman al-Farisi was a free man
And this is the man
The same man whom during the battle of the trench
It was his view to actually dig the trench
Around parts of Medina Manawara
To protect it from the enemy
As they used to do in Persia
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
And grant us understanding
Now we get to Medina Manawara
And the condition of the people
There were in Medina Manawara
Several categories of people
When Muhammad salallahu alayhi was salam had come in
We made mention of the building of the masjid
And the little piece of land
That he had purchased from
The two orphans of Bani Najjab
And thereafter he had immediately
Studied the people in Medina Manawara
And he found the following
They were the believers
Who came from Makkah al-Mukarramah
And these believers
They were known as al-Muhajireen
They were removed from their homes
Their property was stolen in most cases
By the people of Quraysh
Their homes were also stolen
Usurped and so on
And they were all truthful people
They were no hypocrites from amongst the Muhajireen
And one of the reasons was
That a lot of sacrifice was required
In order to be a Muslim in Makkah
So it was difficult for a one
Who wanted to be a Muslim to be a Muslim
But it was not difficult for he
Who did not want to be Muslim
To remain as a non-Muslim
So it was only those with sincere hearts
Whom Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
Were the Muhajireen
And this is why in the Qur'an
Allah praises them
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
For the poor Muhajireen
Those who were removed from their homes
And their property
They seek favor from Allah
And pleasure
And they help Allah and His Messenger
Those are the truthful
Allah says as for those who made Hijra
The poor people who had made Hijra
The Muhajireen
Those who have been driven out of their homes
And their wealth was usurped
And they had made Hijra
For the pleasure of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Allah says they are the truthful
They are the ones who are the truthful
You won't find a hypocrite from amongst them
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
And may He make us truthful as well
And thereafter the next category of people
From amongst the Muslims were the Ansar
The Ansar were the people of Madinah Munawarah
Who opened their arms and who opened their homes
And who opened whatever they had had
In terms of welcome
To welcome these people who had come
To welcome the messenger
And to offer protection of the highest degree
In the same way they protected themselves
And their family members
This was the second category of people
The third category of people were those who were Mushriks
And they had still not accepted Islam
They remained on the religion of their forefathers
From amongst the Arabs
And these were some of the people of Madinah Munawarah
And they were also there
The next category of people were the Jewish clans
Mainly made up of three of them
Banu Qaynuqa
Banu An-Nadheer
And Banu Quraiba
As for Banu Qaynuqa
They were within Madinah Munawarah
And the other two, Banu An-Nadheer
And Banu Quraiba
They were on the outskirts of Madinah Munawarah
And these people were people of the book
They were very very intelligent people
They, Subhanallah
Banu Qaynuqa
And Banu An-Nadheer
They had treaties with Khazraj
Treaties of protection with Khazraj
And as for Banu Quraiba
They had a treaty with Al-Aws
So if anyone attacks us
You know you will come
And we will protect each other together
And so on
That's the type of a treaty that they had had
And the Jewish people were the business people of the area
They are the ones who controlled
The buying and selling of the dates and so on
They were very very intelligent
They dealt in interest
They were the ones who controlled the alcoholic market
The market of beer and alcohol and wines and so on
These people although they were not so many in number
They were controlling the market place
Subhanallah
And it is reported that one of the ways of controlling was
To give the leaders loans
Which were returnable with a great amount of interest
So they were always indebted to them
So they had wealth
They would give it
They did not charge interest amongst themselves
Never
But they would charge it to others
In order to make them indebted
Especially the leaders
So once the leader of a nation or a group
Is indebted to people whom he owes double, triple, quadruple
He will be enslaved forever and ever
If you take a look at the economic laws of the globe today as well
It operates more or less on similar lines
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala never enslave us economically
So this was what was going on at that particular time
When Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam came
He had to deal with these crises as soon as possible
Because on one hand
The kuffar of Quraish they were still gobsmacked
They did not know what struck them
They had an idea
But they still did not digest fully what exactly occurred
Although there was a lot of talking and bubbling
Subhanallah
So in the meantime
The first thing done by Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Was something known as al-mu'akhah
Bain al-muhajireena wal-ansar
He created a brotherhood and a link
Between the families of the muhajireen
And the families of the ansar
What this meant is
Every household from amongst the people of Madinah
Had to take in a household from amongst the people of Makkah
And they had to treat them as real brothers
Subhanallah
As family members and even more
And we will come to see some of what was dictated by Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So what had happened
A miracle happened
Because there would have been a great refugee crisis
If this did not take place
But divine revelation the instruction of the messenger he says
Look we don't want to fight
You cannot choose who is going to go into your home
We will pick it up
And we will draw as we said the other day lot
The names were drawn
And the next person in line would take that particular family and continue
What were they to share
Number one their wealth
Was to be shared half half
Whatever you have give half
And you will keep half
Subhanallah
Another thing
Inheritance
If anyone had died from amongst them
This one from Makkah would inherit
The one from Medina
As though he was one of the family members
Subhanallah
So it was something amazing
So the Ansar
They told Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
That look we love what has happened
So much so
That we are people who are farmers
And we've got lots of what is known as Nakhil
The date palms
So why don't you share even
Our little farms that we have
Half half between us
And the Muhajireen
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam said
No
Not that
Subhanallah
One wonders why
But let's listen to what he said
He then said
Mean the Ansar then made a second offer
And they said okay
Let them help us when it comes to the labor
And the looking after it and so on
And we will share the prophets half half
Then he agreed
Yes that is fine
Subhanallah
So why didn't he agree
That the farms went half half
Because the Ansar were farmers
They knew a lot about how to farm
But the Muhajireen knew nothing about farming
So if they had to take the farms
There would be no production
And the produce would be low
So rather than that
Keep it in the hands of the experts
Subhanallah
But strike the deal where half half
This is the solution of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
The prophet was to be shared half half
But on the ground the expert were the Ansar
And the helpers who came to assist
Were the Muhajireen
Subhanallah
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us a lesson from this
It is a powerful solution
That did not spoil the economy
Of the Muslims of Medina Munawwara
Not at all
And the Ansar were not affected by it
Nor were the Muhajireen and anyone else
This was the solution of
Muhammad ibn Abdullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
We need to make mention some of the companions
And whom they were paired up with as brothers
Very important for us to know some of them at least
So one of the most important people
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
He was paired up with a man from amongst the Ansar
Known as Kharijah
Ibn Zuhayr radiallahu anhu
So that was his brother
And he was known as Akhihi
A brother of his
Being fostered, being made a brother
Because of Hijra
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
The love for one another
And then Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu
He was made a brother of Itbani ibn Malik radiallahu anhu
From amongst the Ansar
Abu Ubaid Amir ibn Al-Jarrah
Was made a brother of Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
And remember they couldn't choose
Who they wanted to be with
It was just their luck
And this was the choice made by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala for them
Zubayr ibn Al-Awwam radiallahu anhu
Was with Salamah ibn Salama radiallahu anhu
Who was a member of the Ansar
As for Talhah ibn Ubaid Allah
He was with Ka'b ibn Malik
Ka'b ibn Malik radiallahu anhu
We will get to hear more about him
When we get to the battle of Tabuk insha'Allah
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson
These were all the helpers of the messenger
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Sa'id ibn Zaid was with one of the reciters of the Quran
From amongst the Ansar who had a beautiful voice
And his recitation was so clear
Ubay ibn Ka'b radiallahu anhu
So much so that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Used to love to listen to the recitation of Ubay ibn Ka'b
radiallahu anhu
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
Even a portion of that clarity
And that type of recitation
And may Allah accept it from us
Then Mus'ab ibn Umayr radiallahu anhu
Masha'Allah
Mus'ab ibn Umayr
The one from Makkah al-Mukarramah
Whose family was quite wealthy
And yet he was expelled from them
He was paired up with Khalid ibn Zaid al-Ansari radiallahu anhu
And as for Ammar ibn Yasir who was the slave
Whose family had been martyred in Makkah
He was paired up with Hudhayfah ibn al-Yaman
Hudhayfah ibn al-Yaman radiallahu anhu
Was that companion who narrated most of the prophecies
Of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He was gifted by Allah that he bore in mind
The prophecies of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
To this day we look at the prophecies one by one coming true
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding
Most of these narrations of Al-Fitan
They were narrated by Hudhayfah ibn al-Yaman radiallahu anhu
And then you have Abu Dharr al-Ghifari radiallahu anhu
Who was also considered a muhajir
He had made the Hijra
He was paired up with Al-Mundhir ibn Amr
And as for Abdulrahman ibn Awf
He was with Sa'd ibn al-Rabi' radiallahu anhu
And then I want to end with one beautiful story
And making mention of two of these companions
Who were wonderful people
Salman al-Farisi radiallahu anhu
The man we spoke about from Persia
Who was enslaved and so on
He was paired up with a person from
He was paired up with Abu d-Dardaa radiallahu anhu
And what happened is Salman al-Farisi had had a lot of knowledge
And his knowledge they used to call him a person
Who has gathered between Christianity and Islam
Which means he had both books
He had read the scriptures of the Christians
And he followed Christianity quite rigidly
And thereafter he was a Muslim
He had accepted Islam
So Salman al-Farisi radiallahu anhu
He was with Abu d-Dardaa radiallahu anhu
And he noticed that Abu d-Dardaa was very very pious
So pious that sometimes he would forget some of his other rights
That Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had ordained
So when he came home he noticed the wife of Abu d-Dardaa
She would never ever dress in a way that would be
Of attraction to her own husband
Now this, there was a relation between them
So this is why there was speech between them
Otherwise there would be no speech between them
But there was a solid relation
And obviously the speech was with respect
Atmos respect
And at that time still the laws of Hijab were not as strict as later on
So what had happened is Salman al-Farisi asked her
What is wrong?
It seems like your dress code is quite tatty and so on
She says well your brother Abu d-Dardaa
He doesn't even really look in our direction
He doesn't have any need in this dunya
Which means what rights of his wife does he ever fill?
He doesn't even look in that direction
Let's pause for a moment
How many of us are guilty of that?
Wallahi it's a fact
We have our wives and we don't give them importance
And sometimes we don't look at them with an eye of appreciation
And sometimes we don't utter words of love
And words of appreciation that can make them feel
All the reason to be people who take pride in their dress code
Because of their husbands
Sadly today we have turned everything upside down
So you find a woman dresses when she leaves the house
Rather than for her husband in the home
Why? Because the world appreciates her
But we don't back at home
This is also the problem
So this is why it's important for us to know
In Islam it's supposed to be the other way around
Appreciation should be within the home
Such that subhanallah
The dress code is the most magnificent, most attractive dress
Within the house
And when we leave the home we are covered
Alhamdulillah
We don't want others to see our wives in the same way
That we wouldn't like to sit and start glaring at someone else's wife
Subhanallah
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us
Not to look at that which we don't even own
Doesn't belong to us
And subhanallah
By looking at others we do not appreciate what we have
That's one of the secrets or should I say
One of the benefits of dressing appropriately is
That if we were all to dress appropriately
Like the women folk for example
All of them were to dress appropriately
What would the men have to compare their wives with?
Nothing at all
Today there is nakedness
So no matter how pretty your wife is
You will always bump into someone even prettier
Then you don't appreciate what you have at home
But you're not going to get that anyway
So what happens?
You are caught in the middle
You die a sad man
Allahu Akbar
Because neither did you make use of what you have
Nor did you ever get what you wished for
Allahu Akbar
We'd rather be people who appreciate what we have
And be honest
So Salman al-Farisi, powerful words
He decided let me correct Abu Darda
Because one of the points of agreement was that
We need to advise one another
We teach one another
The people who have come, the Muhajireen
They have knowledge
They will be teaching the Ansar
Look at how powerful it was
So the Ansar helped them in terms of dunya
And the Muhajireen helped the Ansar
In terms of the Akhira
In the sense that they had more Quran
They had more knowledge
They would all teach
And there was a teacher in the home automatically
Subhanallah
So Salman al-Farisi
When Abu Darda came back
The food was prepared
And he told Abu Darda
Let's sit down to eat
Abu Darda says I'm fasting
So Salman al-Farisi says well
I'm not going to eat until you eat
So you'd better break it
Subhanallah
And Abu Darda looks at him
And then he broke his fast and he began to eat
He began to eat
So obviously there must have been something in his heart
In the heart of Abu Darda
To say well I'm in a fix here
I'm going to see what the messenger says about this later on
But when the evening came
He had not yet seen the messenger
And he was standing in Salah
He wanted to stand in the voluntary prayer
Extra prayer
So as he is standing
Salman al-Farisi comes up to him and says
Go to bed
And made sure that he went to bed
And after some time
He noticed that this man got up again
Abu Darda got up again
And he wanted to start his Salah again
So Salman al-Farisi says
Go to bed again
The second time
And thereafter
When a third of the night was remaining
He got Abu Darda up
And he says
You can now fulfill your Salah
You can now pray
Then he says
Oh Abu Darda
Let me teach you something
You have a duty unto your Rabb
You have a duty unto yourself
You have a duty unto your family
And so on
So fulfill the right of everyone
Don't overdo one
At the price or at the expense of the other
So this Abu Darda r.a. heard it
He understood it
But in the morning
He went to Rasulullah s.a.w. and told him
This is what happened
Firstly
The fast
I had to eat
Secondly
The man tells me to sleep and not to pray
And thirdly
He comes to give me some speech
And he told me
That you have a right
Or Allah has a right over you
And so does your own body have a right over you
And so does your family have a right over you
So fulfill the rights of everyone
What is the meaning of this?
Your body has a right
You need to rest
You need to sleep
You need to eat
You need to make sure
That you look after this body
Which is an amana
Which is a trust from Allah s.w.t.
If you were not to eat
Not to rest
You get sick
When you are sick and ill
How are you going to pray?
So you'd rather be a balanced person
The same applies to your Rabb
You can pray MashaAllah
But not at the expense of your own health
Because then tomorrow
You won't be able to pray
What's the point of doing everything today?
It's like us
Sometimes we feel pious
So we sit with the Quran for two hours
And then for two months
We didn't even see one page
It happens
We sit in the month of Ramadan
And MashaAllah
We make ibadah such
That people then think
That you know what
For the whole month
Now I don't have to make ibadah
Or for the whole year
Sorry
I now don't have to pray
You know on a lighter note
Something comes to my mind
There was once a lady
Who had come visiting
And there was a wedding
That she was going to be
Participating in
So she was making wudhu
One wudhu
Two wudhu
Three wudhu
Four wudhu
Five wudhu
And so she was asked
What are you doing?
She says no
Three, four days
I'm not going to get a chance
To make wudhu
So I'd rather make 10, 15 now
And then when one breaks
What will happen is
I'll still have another wudhu
Allahu Akbar
It doesn't work that way
You make wudhu when the time comes
You can't read all your prayers
You can't read all your Salah today
And say right now for the month
I'm not going to be able to read
So I'd rather just read everything
So this is what
Abu Darda was being told
In a much more beautiful way
To say that this is the right
Your spouse, your family has a right
If you don't smile at your wife
What? You want the neighbor
To come and quickly smile at her
Allah protect us
If you do not talk to her
With good words
Who do you want to talk to her
With good words?
And I'd better also say
On the other side of it
Because people nowadays
Also suffer the other way
The women need to know
That if they are not going to be
The sweetest to their own husbands
Then there will be others out there
Who may be sweet to them
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Protect us from shaitan
Really
So when you fulfill
The rights of one another properly
You resolve your matters
Without even realizing
Today we want to over punish
Even when we punish
Our own children sometimes
Or admonish them
Sometimes we overdo it
The same applies to our spouses
If they've done something wrong
We get so excited
That we've made a mountain
Out of a little mole hill
Let me quickly inform you
Subhanallah
When we get married
If the spouse makes one mistake
Does that mean the marriage must end?
No
The previous generations used to
Help each other through difficulty
With us today
One difficulty
The person wants out
No, I'm going
Why? Because there's one problem
How foolish is that?
If we had to break marriages
Because of a problem or a difficulty
Everyone's marriages would be broken
Because everyone has gone through
Some difficulty or some problem
So foolish are those
Who want to break their marriages
Because of one, two little issues
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Make us realize that a spouse
Is all about support
And marriage is all about sacrifice
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Open our doors
Make us the best of people
Remember
Don't be from amongst those
Who loses the family life
And at the same time
They are vying for something
Which they will never ever get
Because they're just looking
And wishing
Allahu Akbar
May Allah protect us
We need to lower our gaze
And work on our conditions
And our family members
And we will achieve the pleasure
Of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
Tells Abu Darda two words
Sadaqa Salman
Over
Salman has spoken the truth
That's it
Imagine
After the whole story
Was put in front of Muhammad
Salallahu alayhi wasalam
He just said
Salman has spoken the truth
Now the reason I raise this
Is to show you
That even amongst ourselves
We need to help each other
Where people are going wrong
And at the same time
Don't feel bad
When someone corrects you
When someone rectifies
My brother
Do you know what
I notice this and that
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
And these were
The type of people
The muhajireen and ansar
Where they developed
And subhanallah
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Granted them
A lot
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Opened their doors
In the dunya
As well as in the akhirah
So the issue of inheritance
Where they used to inherit
From one another
That came to an end
When the verses were revealed
Where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
Wa ulul arhaa mi ba'duhum
Aula bi ba'din
Fi kitabillah
When that verse was revealed
Meaning
That your family members
And those who are related to you
Are closer to you
In the book of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Than those who made the hijra
When that verse was revealed
Referring to inheritance
Then the inheritance
Between the muhajireen and ansar
Had stopped at that particular point
So this was as far as the brotherhood
And the relation had gone
It worked so well
The sahaba radi allahu anhum
Who had come from
Makkat al-Mukarrama
Many of them were business people
And the ansar
They knew much about their farming and so on
So these business people
Instead of taking handouts
A lot of them said
Show us where the market place is
They went to the market place
They came back at the end of the day
With much more than had been expected
Subhanallah
So they did not depend on handouts
Now we take a look at
The charter of Madina Munawwara
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
Being made a leader
He was now the supreme leader
Spiritually as well as on the ground
He had political leadership
In Madina Munawwara
Subhanallah
They looked up to him
He was the decider
There was one problem
What was it?
Before the agreement with
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
There was a huge war
Where a lot of the leaders had died
We made mention of it twice so far
And as a result
They were about to appoint a new leader
Abu Amir al-Rahib or Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul
These were the two whom the choice had come down to
Salul was a man from Khazraj
And Abu Amir al-Rahib was a man from Al-Aws
And after much deliberation
They decided we are going to appoint
We are going to appoint
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul as our leader
But before they actually appointed him
They struck a deal with Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
To come to Madina
The Hijra took place
And Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam was the leader
So Ubayy ibn Salul always hated Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul
He was from Khazraj
He hated Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Because he was supposed to be a leader
Almost a king virtually
And he was the one who was going to be the man
So because of that
He did not like Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
And those people whom he was going to appoint
In positions of power
They also did not like Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
At this stage
He was not yet from amongst those who had said the Shahadah
He was still a pure mushrik
Later on he saw that it's going to be tough
I'm going to lose
As it is I'm not going to be the leader
And now if I remain as a mushrik
I'm going to be a person who's going to lose a lot
So the best bet is for me to pretend like I'm a Muslim
I can just say that I bear witness
I will mix with them
I will be with them
And wherever I can
I will try and look at my own benefit
Remember
When we look at personal benefit
We lose the collective benefit
Take a look at any nation
If you find corrupt leaders
You will find the nation is suffering
But if you find people who are
Bothered about the collective benefit
Then everyone will be benefiting
Mashallah
So the same applies here
This man was bothered about his own personal benefit and gain
And he was not really bothered about the others
This was Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul
Now the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
Had to strike two agreements
One was amongst the believers
We need to strike an agreement
We need to write something down
He was a leader
And when we write something down
Everybody must pledge allegiance upon that
And secondly
We need to sign a treaty
We are not Muslims around us
They are Jewish people
And they are the others
We need to strike a treaty with them
We cannot be seen to be at war
With anyone and everyone around here
And there would be no reason for us
To be at war with them
So the first thing he did
He struck this treaty
The Charter of Madina
وثيقة المدينة المنورة
We ask Allah سبحانه وتعالى
To grant us lesson from it
I am going to mention a few points
From the agreement
That was struck amongst the believers
Remember
We are building a nation here
So this is a Charter
There were so many points
We don't have the time
To go through every single one of them
But some of them
And as I said
We're building a nation
So one of the first points
The Mu'mineen
They are one nation
And all those who are here
In Madina Munawwara
Will be part of the nation
So the Mu'mineen
They are one nation
Those who are in Madina Munawwara
Are part of the nation
And they are preferred
Over those from outside
So this would mean a lot
It has a deep meaning
Because we come first
If I am to help
We help one another
Anyone from outside
We help him after
We've helped you
And thereafter
If there is an attack from outside
We would obviously
All be protecting one another
All this came into
Some of the final clauses
You look at the next clause
Which said
That the blood money
And the ransom
That would have to be paid
By every group
Would be paid by the group
And if there was a poor person
Then we would all come in
To help that particular poor person
In order to pay
Whatever they owe
And here when we talk of blood money
This was something at the time
Where if someone had killed someone
By mistake
By error
If a person was killed by error
They had to pay some blood money
That blood money would be paid
By the family or the clan
Or the tribe of the person
Who was guilty of what is known today
I would like to think
As culpable homicide
Where you didn't kill someone intentionally
But it resulted in murder
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
It is called qatlul khata
Person who kills someone else by mistake
Nowadays one of the quickest
Examples that come to my mind is
If you're driving a vehicle
And you make an accident
And the passengers die
In actual fact
The driver is guilty
Of something, of a crime
And it's lesser than murder
But it is actually a crime
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
Goodness and may He protect us all
Then the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Makes mention of another point
All the believers will be against
Anyone who has oppressed
Anyone who transgresses
And anyone who engages in
Any form of corruption
Even if he is a relative
So if you have a relative
And he has committed a crime
Don't protect him
You need to hand him over
Subhanallah
This they all agreed upon
And then also
The mu'mineen, their blood
Is all equal
The most humble
All the poorest from amongst them
The richest from amongst them
There are no lines
The blood is equal
And anyone who is to engage
In any form of a crime
They should be handed over
And on top of that
Nobody should help
Anyone else to fight a believer
And nobody should help
Even the disbelievers
To fight the believers
Who came through
This was an agreement
And thereafter
There was another part of the agreement
Which said
The Jewish people around us
Should not be harmed
And we should never assist an enemy
Who comes to attack them
Look at this
The Jewish people around us
Because they are part of the nation
So when you are a leader of the nation
You have to look at the others
Not perhaps on your faith
And you have to also ensure
That they are protected
And so the agreement of Medina
Amongst the believers was that
The Jewish people would not be harmed
And anyone who was coming
To harm the Jewish people
Should not be assisted in any way
And in fact later on even
There is a point that makes mention of
The fact that they should be chased away
They should be fought
Who should be fought?
Those who come and attack this nation
And those who come and attack
Even if they were to come to attack
Meaning the Jewish people
Who were in Medina Munawwara
The mu'mineen would gather together
And they would repel that attack
That was coming from outside
This is made mention in this
Watiqatul Medinatul Munawwara
And then a very important point
Nobody should have their private peace
With Quraish
Nobody is allowed to make peace
With anyone the mu'mines were at war with
And this would mean that
Some people cannot come up and say
Look I've got my private agreement
With these people
So I'm sorry I need to you know
Fulfill the rights of these people
Or I need to do this and that
No, if it is an agreement
It's an agreement of everyone
And we are all one
So nobody can come and say
No sorry excuse me
See this is a crisis we face today
Where you have an oppressor in community
And you find some people say
No but you know I have to do this
Because he's a big businessman
And I can't you know disassociate from him
And so on so what we do
We make him more powerful
He becomes more powerful
If everyone was one
And we all said you are wrong
No matter how wealthy he was
He would come with his tail
Between his legs
And he would humble himself
But the problem is
We are not that united
As these people at the beginning were
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
And grant us goodness
Then the next point
That is made mention of is
This agreement will not be broken
All those who believe will make sure
That they uphold the agreement
And subhanallah
If there is any dispute
It should go straight to the messenger
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So these are just some of the points
That I've decided to make mention of
Because this is nation building
Up to today these points are valid
If we would like to build a nation
And if we would like to build a community
We need to have the kamaradi
And at the same time
We need to protect one another
And we need to have rules that sometimes
May go against our personal preference
For the preference of the entire lot
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
Then came the agreement with the Jewish people
And this was a powerful treaty
It was known as the treaty with the Jews
One of the first points
Was that the Jewish people of this Banu Awf
Who were the Jews around Medina Munawwara
They will be considered as one nation
One nation with the believers
Subhanallah
Next point
They will follow their faith
And the mu'mineen will follow their faith
None will cross the lines of the other
Subhanallah
Look at this agreement
Because it was so powerful
In that even the timing of it was perfect
If there was a slight delay
By that time people might have come in
And the mushriks of Quraysh
They tried to tamper later on
It was too late
There was an agreement in place already
So Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Was very intelligent
First things first
Let's sign a treaty with everyone
Let's make peace here
And we need to be at peace with everyone
Then the next point was
That the mu'mineen
The believers will be responsible
For all their living and their costs and so on
And the Jewish people will be responsible for theirs
When it comes to war
The Jewish people will pay
A part of the expense of the war
On condition that they are fighting
Alongside with the believers
So if they are fighting
They must also take some of the burden
Of the costs of the war
And thereafter we will fulfill
This covenant with mutual respect
Mutually this will be fulfilled
And we will be righteous with one another
The next point was
That none of us should engage
In any behavior that will undermine the other
So the Jews were not to engage in behavior
That would undermine the Muslims
And the Muslims were not to engage in behavior
That would undermine the Jews
This was a powerful point
And they were very happy about it
Then anyone who is oppressed from either side
We will all get up and help him
Whoever is oppressed
We will get up and help him
And then the point that
Yathrib meaning Madina Munawwara
It is prohibited to fight within Madina Munawwara
Completely prohibited
So within the surroundings of this place
Known as Madina Munawwara
It became what is known as Haram
Haram meaning no fighting in it
Everyone will be at peace in it
Just like Mecca was made Haram
By Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
From the time of Ibrahim a.s.
So Madina Munawwara was made Haram
Everything in Madina was to be at peace
No war happening there
Nobody should be killing each other
Nothing should happen there
Which would undermine the peace and security
Of the people of Madina Munawwara
So much so that later on the Prophet s.a.w.
Extended it to even the creatures of Madina Munawwara
And the plants
Where you are not allowed to destructively
Remove plants and so on
And trees from Madina Munawwara
And even the little insects and other items
That you see within the boundaries of the Haram
We are not allowed to just kill them haphazardly
Obviously there are certain insects
That we were permitted to kill
And certain reptiles and so on
But besides that we were not permitted
To even kill the little insects
Subhanallah
Everything supposed to be at peace in Madina Munawwara
And then if there is any dispute
It will go to Muhammad s.a.w.
Another important point is
We will all boycott Quraish
So like they boycotted us four times
We will all boycott them, no dealing
The Jews will not deal with Quraish
Or anyone who is connected to them
And the Mu'mineen will not deal with Quraish
Or anyone who deals with them
And the next point was
We will all get up to defend this nation
Of Madina Munawwara
So whenever there is an attack from outside
We are one
We get together and we fight them together
May Allah s.w.t. grant us understanding
See this nation building is a very important point
It requires a lot of wisdom
And it requires a lot of tolerance
And yes when the treaties were broken
Later on something else happened
But this was the initial treaty
And if nobody had broken the treaty
They would never have had a problem
The problem was when people began to break the treaty
And this is when the whole situation took a new twist
Then we have another very important point
And that was that this treaty will not hinder
The lawful revenge against an oppressor
So if there is an oppressor
You can't say no no no
He is from amongst us
You can't fight him
No, if he is an oppressor
Then this treaty excludes that particular person
Because as you heard earlier
They would all get up to assist the oppressor
So now came this nation
And the nation was being built
And subhanallah
Allah s.w.t. granted them great strength
If you look at Rasulullah s.a.w
Just to mention a little bit of what he gave
A lot of importance to
Firstly education, knowledge, to learn
And to learn to read and write as well
Was given a lot of importance by Muhammad s.a.w
At that time
So much so that after one of the wars
He freed people who taught the mu'mineen
How to read and write
We will get to that inshallah
Also the cleansing of the soul
And the bad qualities of the heart
Was given great importance by Rasulullah s.a.w
Good character and conduct
Love, brotherhood, honor, dignity
Worship and obedience to Allah s.w.t.
Inshaallah tomorrow we will take a look
At some of the narrations
Where the prophet s.a.w
Encouraged this newly formed nation
Regarding character and conduct
And what would actually build this nation
And then what happened with Quraish
Where they did not bear any patience
They wanted to come
And they really wanted to attack the mu'mineen
And what happened as a result
And the wars that took place
May Allah s.w.t. grant us goodness and protection
And may He make us from those who appreciate
What had happened
The sacrifice of those in order for it to get to us today
Until we meet again
May Allah s.w.t. bless our prophet Muhammed s.a.w
Glory be to Allah
Glory be to you
We witness that there is no god but you
We ask your forgiveness
And we repent to you
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds
The Merciful, the Merciful
Owner of the Day of Judgment
It is You we worship